■ Entry Title

■ Executive Summary

■ Concept Overview: What is your Project? At what stage of development is the Project?
Educational Value Proposition and Impact: What educational need(s) does your Project
aim to address? How have you been/will you measure educational impact?
Research: What research theories or evidence are driving the development
of your Project? What, if any, research has been done, and what are the outcomes?
Contribution to the field of STEM Learning: How does your Project address the
challenge of STEM curriculum through digital gaming.

Playability: How does the Project work?

• Potential for Scale: Does your Project have potential for broad scale impact? What is
the feasibility of mass production, marketing and distribution? Please outline your thoughts
around an implementation plan.

• Underserved Communities: How can your Project be made available on a platform
that is accessible to underserved communities, such as to being played via a
dial-up internet connection with a standard web browser or mobile phones that
have limited connectivity and functionality

• Next Steps: Sketch out your plan for what you will do next if you win the Grand Prize.
What is your next stage of development?

(d) A playable prototype of the Project ("Playable Prototype"). The Project
must be at a stage where a field/market test can occur. Idea/concept stage
projects will not be accepted.  Each Submission must consist of an embedded
link to an online video of the prototype being demonstrated or a link to the
prototype itself if it is available to be played online.

(e) A brief biography of the entrant or, if you are applying as a Team, brief
biographies of each of the Team members. Each biography must not exceed 500
words and must contain information about the Applicant's or Team member's
relevant work experience and educational background, and should be submitted in
the form of a portable document format (PDF) file. For Teams, all Team member
biographies must be included in one PDF document.
