Mark Chec
    Interactive Tech Director

Renee
    Champagne University, Egame degree
    working at the museum

Marc:
    We're doing lots of interactive work, in the digital realm. We've
    had a renewed focus on gamification on informal learning
    experiences. Renee was approached by champagne about stem
    challenge, get students working.  The students we worked with,
    didn't turn out well. What we did last time was a body defense
    game, and we started to get into a very complicated set of science
    standards. Us working with content people was where we were lax.

    We told Steve we were interested, but worried. Need the right
    content people, need help selling the game to classic educators,
    but we're bringing them up to speed.

    Liked the discreet concepts of light reflection and refraction.
    Fits well with national science standards. It's not complicated
    like microbiology, and yet still appropriate. General explanation
    is fantastic, splitting colors, reflecting, etc... to achieve
    levels.  We are confident we can find the right content people on
    our end to get that level of "science trueness" on our end.


Remy:
    What are your cycles like as upstream mentors?

Marc:
    When we look at overall timeline, we're looking at now until March
    12th. We're looking at maybe 6 weeks, more like 5 weeks. On the
    quarter system, you're used to it. I'd like to think, at least a
    weekly check-in would be appropriate. Renee will be point person, I
    will be kind of popping in and out, and if you have particular
    concerns or questions, and if you need me to run interference, let
    me know.

    I'm guessing, we can say it's weekly, but at the beginning and end,
    we'll need more meetings. Upfront to set expectations before actual
    development. Personally, I like to see the 'paper and pencil'
    storyboard, to get our content folks supportive of the educational
    aspects. Once we're over initial hump, we go into development,
    usability, iterative process. The last week or two, we'll want to
    talk more for the last sprint.


Marc:
    The very next meeting after this is to chat with Renee about what
    are these first deliverables for us to be comfortable to go forward
    with development. Make sure we're sound on concept and usability.
    I've been caught before with development happening too early.

Remy:
    SJ has been doing everything he can to make us paper-prototype and
    not start developing too early. We're on the same page.


there were some other questions from the email:

Q:  How will this game/it's goals, support science standards?
A:  Marc:
        There is a very simple connections to Massachusetts standards,
        and the national 1996 standards, that have science of light at
        the middle school level. We'll take that on for curriculum
        programs, exhibits/etc...

Q:  How do we know this is working?
A:  Marc:
        We had an excellent research and evaluation team. We can do a
        one-time session, or a formalized process. There are internal
        employees, but they cost money. You can hire research and
        evaluation teams, and they are respected world-wide. I'd have
        to take a closer look at the STEM challenge requirements.

Q:  Do you have any R&E at RIT?
A:  Remy:
        In the past for other foss game courses, We've done informal
        play testing in elementary classrooms. We *may* have some
        resources through 2nd avenue and first playable shops in town,
        through SJ, but he's the one to answer this question.

    Marc:
        We can suggest that we have a myriad of resources. We can
        propose informal classroom based testing, and formal testing.

Q:  What research theories are driving development?
    Marc:
        We'll have some thoughts. The reality is, we're in a relatively
        new age of game based education, esp in informal learning
        space. There haven't been a lot of good studies with game based
        learning. We can draw on the body of knowledge and research
        that has been done. We're working with NSF grants to explore
        the value of immersive virtual experiences. We'd be focusing
        on games more than immersive in this case.

        We can explain how this differs/intersects with other research.

Marc:

    We'll identify our resident "light expert", and we'll figure out
    what are the challenges/opportunities that come from the classroom.
    We'll find the sweet-spot.

    We'll have some initial ideas/answers by Friday.

Remy:
    We'll talk with SJ, and meet with class on Thursday. Our team will
    be putting together a draft version of the proposal to share with
    the group, and send it along by Friday.

Next Meeting: Friday
