<html>
<body>
■ Entry Title
    Lazorz

■ Executive Summary

■ Concept Overview:
    <strong>What is your Project?</strong>

    Our project is an educational game built with open web technologies
    (HTML5/Javascript) that focuses on the physics of light and reflection.

    At what stage of development is the Project?

    Our project is at the playable prototype stage. Our basic game mechanics
    and engines have been implemented, with basic art assets and sprites. The
    project is ready for play testing, and our team will be seeking community
    contributions such as levels, art, and feature improvements after the
    conclusion of the STEM challenge. Our game has been deployed, and is
    available at: http://lazorz-fossrit.rhcloud.com.

Educational Value Proposition and Impact:

    What educational need(s) does your Project aim to address?

    How have you been/will you measure educational impact?

Research:
    What research theories or evidence are driving the development of your
    Project?

    What, if any, research has been done, and what are the outcomes?

Contribution to the field of STEM Learning:

    How does your Project address the challenge of STEM curriculum through
    digital gaming?

Playability:
    How does the Project work?

    Players are presented with a 10x10 grid, with a row of buttons. On the grid
    there are tiles representing beams of light, and obstacles. The object of
    the game is to place reflective mirrors on the grid to direct the beam
    around obstacles to the end tile to solve the puzzle. Some puzzles require
    the beam to be filtered through a certain color.

    The user interface was designed with both desktop and mobile screens taken
    into consideration. Both mouse and touch screen inputs were accounted for
    when handling user input during game play.

    Levels were designed to naturally progress in difficulty while introducing
    players to new tools. The first level simply requires a mirror to be placed
    in the correct position. The second level requires the player to rotate the
    mirror. The third level introduces obstacles, and the fourth level
    introduces colored filters. This gradual increase in difficulty works well
    as a tutorial of the features and tools available in the current game,
    serves as a proof of concept of game elements and mechanics.

• Potential for Scale:
    Does your Project have potential for broad scale impact?
    What is the feasibility of mass production, marketing and distribution?

    This game was designed to be simple, and meet the lowest common
    denominators in usability and technical requirements.

    If we were to produce physical copies of the game, our it would only need
    .013% of the space on a 650MB Compact Disc. In fact, our game could fit
    onto a 3.5inch Floppy Disk if it had to!

    As our game playable via the web, distribution is a matter of directing
    prospective users to a URL, where they can choose to play the game, or
    download a local copy.

    Scaling the game is as straight forward as adding more nodes to our
    cloud-based deployment. Our project is deployed on Red Hat's Openshift
    platform (http://openshift.redhat.com), which is backed by Amazon's Elastic
    Compute Cloud (EC2). If we were to experience an increase in users and
    traffic, there are upgrade paths provided by our Platform as a Service
    (Paas) provider to accommodate increased traffic.


    Please outline your thoughts around an implementation plan.

• Underserved Communities:
    How can your Project be made available on a platform that is accessible to
    underserved communities, such as to being played via a dial-up internet
    connection with a standard web browser or mobile phones that have limited
    connectivity and functionality.

    The code itself is "free standing." Meaning that if have a copy of the
    files locally on your device, you can play the game locally without the
    need of an internet connection. The current version of the game requires
    less than 1MB of space. If someone were using a dial-up internet connection
    (maximum speed of 56kbps), even at 25% speeds (12kbps), it would take just
    over one minute (~66 seconds) to download all the files and game assets. To
    play the game, you need only a standard web-browser (which again, does not
    need access to the internet) so users won't have to download any additional
    software or plug-ins onto their device.

    Users who want to play the game from the internet on a desktop, need only a
    web-browser. Our team developed grid and beam engines that use simple 2D
    vector graphics that require minimal amounts of processing power and
    bandwidth to render. If a device can render a web page, it has all the
    power it needs to handle rendering our game.

    Users who want to play the game from a touch-screen mobile device or tablet
    experience the same interface and game play elements as on a desktop. The
    resolution of the game grid and interface were designed with small screens
    in mind.  Each tile is a mere 48x48 pixels; the favicon inside your
    browser's address bar is usually between 12-36 pixels wide.

• Next Steps:
    Sketch out your plan for what you will do next if you win the Grand Prize.
    What is your next stage of development?

(d) A playable prototype of the Project ("Playable Prototype"). The Project
must be at a stage where a field/market test can occur. Idea/concept stage
projects will not be accepted.  Each Submission must consist of an embedded
link to an online video of the prototype being demonstrated or a link to the
prototype itself if it is available to be played online.

(e) A brief biography of the entrant or, if you are applying as a Team, brief
biographies of each of the Team members. Each biography must not exceed 500
words and must contain information about the Applicant's or Team member's
relevant work experience and educational background, and should be submitted in
the form of a portable document format (PDF) file. For Teams, all Team member
biographies must be included in one PDF document.
</body>
</html>
